README.md, before:

# HMarkets.com Selenium Automation Suite

This project is a robust UI test automation framework for validating the core functionalities of [HMarkets.com](https://hmarkets.com). It focuses on form submission scenarios, ensuring both successful and negative test flows across key user-facing forms.

## 📌 Overview

This suite automates **end-to-end testing** for:

- ✅ **Live Account Opening Form**
- ✅ **Demo Account Opening Form**
- ✅ **Contact Us Form**

Both **successful form submissions** and **field-level validation errors** are thoroughly tested to ensure optimal user experience and system reliability.

---

## 💡 Key Features

- 🔄 **Comprehensive Form Testing** — Validates both positive and negative test flows.
- 🧱 **Modular Architecture** — Built using **Object-Oriented Design** and **Page Object Model**.
- 📦 **Data-Driven Testing** — Uses **external JSON files** to define expected validation messages and test inputs.
- ⚙️ **Environment Configurable** — Config properties such as URL is managed via `config.properties`.
- 🚀 **Scalable & Maintainable** — Designed for long-term use and easy expansion.
- 🧪 **TestNG + Maven** — For streamlined execution and dependency management.

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

| Component      | Description                     |
|----------------|---------------------------------|
| Language       | Java                            |
| Framework      | Selenium WebDriver + TestNG     |
| Build Tool     | Maven                           |
| Data Format    | JSON                            |
| IDE            | IntelliJ IDEA (Recommended)     |
| Version Control| Git + GitHub                    |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🔧 Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed on your machine:

- Java JDK 15 or above
- Maven 3.6+
- IntelliJ IDEA (or any Java IDE)
- Git
- Chrome browser (latest version)

### 📥 Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chopradhruv6038/hMarket_Java_Selenium.git
cd hMarket_Java_Selenium

⚙️ Configure the Base URL
Navigate to src/main/resources/config.properties and ensure the base URL is set correctly:
hmarketswebURL=https://hmarkets.com/

⚙️ Load the maven dependencies in pom.xml file.


🧪 Running the Tests

From IntelliJ IDEA:
Right-click on testng.xml (hMarketRegressionTest.xml) or any test class.

Choose Run to execute tests via TestNG.

FROM Command Line:
Navigate to the project folder
command: mvn clean test

Maven will automatically resolve dependencies and execute the test suite.

✅ Test Coverage Summary:

Feature           | Positive Test | Negative Validation
Live Account Form | ✅            | ✅
Demo Account Form | ✅            | ✅
Contact Us Form   | ✅            | ✅


📚 Best Practices Followed:

✅ Page Object Model (POM) implementation

✅ Clean code and reusable components

✅ No hardcoded values – externalized via JSON and config.properties

✅ Organized test data and selectors

✅ TestNG annotations for grouping, parallelization, and prioritization

✅ Only explicit waits with conditions are used – no Thread.sleep() calls anywhere in the test code


👤 Author
Dhruv Chopra
Senior QA Engineer | Dubai
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dhruv-chopra-dxb/

Commit message:

read me for captcha updated

README.md, after:

# HMarkets.com Selenium Automation Suite

This project is a robust UI test automation framework for validating the core functionalities of [HMarkets.com](https://hmarkets.com). It focuses on form submission scenarios, ensuring both successful and negative test flows across key user-facing forms.

## 📌 Overview

This suite automates **end-to-end testing** for:

- ✅ **Live Account Opening Form**
- ✅ **Demo Account Opening Form**
- ✅ **Contact Us Form**

Both **successful form submissions** and **field-level validation errors** are thoroughly tested to ensure optimal user experience and system reliability.

---

## 💡 Key Features

- 🔄 **Comprehensive Form Testing** — Validates both positive and negative test flows.
- 🧱 **Modular Architecture** — Built using **Object-Oriented Design** and **Page Object Model**.
- 📦 **Data-Driven Testing** — Uses **external JSON files** to define expected validation messages and test inputs.
- ⚙️ **Environment Configurable** — Config properties such as URL is managed via `config.properties`.
- 🚀 **Scalable & Maintainable** — Designed for long-term use and easy expansion.
- 🧪 **TestNG + Maven** — For streamlined execution and dependency management.

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

| Component      | Description                     |
|----------------|---------------------------------|
| Language       | Java                            |
| Framework      | Selenium WebDriver + TestNG     |
| Build Tool     | Maven                           |
| Data Format    | JSON                            |
| IDE            | IntelliJ IDEA (Recommended)     |
| Version Control| Git + GitHub                    |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🔧 Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed on your machine:

- Java JDK 15 or above
- Maven 3.6+
- IntelliJ IDEA (or any Java IDE)
- Git
- Chrome browser (latest version)

### 📥 Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chopradhruv6038/hMarket_Java_Selenium.git
cd hMarket_Java_Selenium

⚙️ Configure the Base URL
Navigate to src/main/resources/config.properties and ensure the base URL is set correctly:
hmarketswebURL=https://hmarkets.com/

⚙️ Load the maven dependencies in pom.xml file.


🧪 Running the Tests

From IntelliJ IDEA:
Right-click on testng.xml (hMarketRegressionTest.xml) or any test class.

Choose Run to execute tests via TestNG.

FROM Command Line:
Navigate to the project folder
command: mvn clean test

Maven will automatically resolve dependencies and execute the test suite.

✅ Test Coverage Summary:

Feature           | Positive Test | Negative Validation
Live Account Form | ✅            | ✅
Demo Account Form | ✅            | ✅
Contact Us Form   | ✅            | ✅


📚 Best Practices Followed:

✅ Page Object Model (POM) implementation

✅ Clean code and reusable components

✅ No hardcoded values – externalized via JSON and config.properties

✅ Organized test data and selectors

✅ TestNG annotations for grouping, parallelization, and prioritization

✅ Only explicit waits with conditions are used – no Thread.sleep() calls anywhere in the test code


⚠️ CAPTCHA Handling with Selenium
Google reCAPTCHA is intentionally designed to prevent automation by tools like Selenium. It uses advanced browser and behavior analysis, making it impossible to solve reCAPTCHA automatically in UI tests.

Automation Limitation:
Selenium (and similar tools) cannot bypass or solve reCAPTCHA. Any attempt to interact with it will result in failure or an infinite spinner.

Recommended Approach:

For automated test execution, disable or mock reCAPTCHA in your test or staging environment.

If not possible, manual intervention is required to solve the captcha during test execution. Our code uses an explicit wait at the captcha step to allow time for manual solving when needed.

This scenario specifically affects the Contact Us form success submission tests, where the captcha is encountered after the message field is filled.
Relevant steps to handle the captcha are commented in the codebase, along with this explanation.

👤 Author
Dhruv Chopra
Senior QA Engineer | Dubai
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dhruv-chopra-dxb/
